Okay, using the .NET CLI, so let's create
our new first console application.
So I am in my repos directory,
cuz I always have a repos directory.
And I'm gonna say dotnet new console,
and I am going to call it,
I'm gonna say -n to give it a name,
MyFirstApp.
Then you can see that it
does a couple of things.
You see that it happens all very quickly,
it all happens so fast.
So we're gonna go look at that.
First, we're gonna see,
cd into MyFirstApp.
And then we're gonna hit ls.
And you're gonna see that we have
a thing called a csproj file,
which we'll get into.
Program.cs, which is our entry
point inside of the application.
And an obj directory, which typically
contains restored packages and whatnot.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: All right, but
let's take a look at it in Visual Studio
Code, kinda take a fully integrated tour,
as it were.
So I'm gonna go into Repos.
I'm gonna go into MyFirstApp,
and I am going to go here.
And a couple of things that I wanted to
point out, I'm gonna go and close this.
If you're used to Visual Studio Code, some
of this is gonna look pretty familiar.
So you'll see that a solution
file got generated,
which is done by the C# Dev Kit.
So if you have multiple projects
as part of your solution,
you can see that the solution file
will be the container for all of them.
You can see that it's kind
of a bunch of gobbledygook.
[LAUGH] You could tell that it's just some
of the vestigial stuff from .NET of old,
but most of the time,
you're not looking at that anyways.
You can just ignore it.
We have our MyFirstApp.csproj file.
So this defines the packages that
are installed as part of your application.
What version of .NET are you on?
What version of C# are you using?
In this case,
we're just using the latest one.
Do we wanna have nullability enabled?
Which we'll get into
nullability here in a bit.
And the output type of this application,
it could be a library, typically, or EXE.
In this case,
we're just outputting an executable
because that's what we're running.
This is a console app.
And then we're gonna look at Program.cs,
which frankly looks a little lonely,
I have to say.
So all we have is
a Console.WriteLine("Hello, World!"),
which is a very typical way to enter in
an application, if I do say so myself.
So I am going to hit Ctrl+Shift+tilde
to open up the terminal.
So I have that there, and
I'm gonna hit dotnet build.
And you're gonna see that the thing
builds, which if it didn't,
I would very much hope that it would.
And then we will go ahead and
do dotnet run to run our application.
And you can see it printed Hello,
World here, and we change this.
And you see, we run it again.
Nope, I didn't save it.
I don't need to turn on autosave,
perfect, okay.
Hello, World, there we go, boom.
You see that it's pretty simple.
The project structure, if you've done
any legacy .NET development, looks
a lot simpler, a lot different than it did
ten years ago when it was .NET Framework.
They've spent a lot of time
kind of simplifying things,
which I think is a really good thing.
I do wanna point out a couple of
things about the extension as well.
You see that we have this
little play button right here.
We can run this and it will run our
application, as you can imagine.
You can also use it to debug it.
So this is a little bit ahead, but
if you're a person who likes to be able to
run your application line by line, we
have a fully integrated debugger in that.
That's part of C# Dev Kit.
That's part of the licensed product.
And then we have this down here,
let's go back here.
And I wanna just point
out Solution Explorer.
So if you're used to Visual Studio at all,
or JetBrains,
right, or anything,
usually there's kind of a hierarchical
Solution Explorer view,
which is what we have here.
So this is basically the C# Dev Kit
extension saying, hey,
I see a project file,
I see a solution file.
Let's look at all those things.
So you can see that we have the same
stuff, but it hides the SLN file, and
it really just kinda
shows you what's there.
So if you have something in that
directory, a file in that directory,
say, and you've excluded that file,
it wouldn't show up here.
But it would show up up here
in the usual Visual Studio or
the Visual Studio Code view.
>> Student: What is the benefit of
creating SLN before creating a .NET
project?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: What is the
benefit of creating an SLN before creating
a .NET project?
If you know that the project that
you're doing file new project on or
dotnet new on is going to be multiple,
is gonna encompass multiple
different projects.
Then it's a good idea to
start with a solution file.
But, like I said, in Visual Studio and
in JetBrains Rider and Visual Studio Code
with the C# Dev Kit extension,
one will usually be generated for you.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
you can use the .NET tooling to create,
if you go to the previous page, you can
see that there is a, well, it's not here.
But if you go to the dotnet new list,
you'll see that solution
file is one of the things.
So you can just create
a solution file on its own.
I usually just let the IDE do the work for
me.
I'm lazy like that.
>> Student: How does the console app
know to execute the code in Program.cs?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That's
a great question.
I'll go ahead and spoil it for
you a little bit.
One of the things that Microsoft has done
is kind of tried to eliminate boilerplate
as much as they can.
So how does it know to do that?
Implicitly under the hood,
it actually creates a program class, and
then it creates a main method for
it to execute on.
So these are all just
high level statements.
And when I say spoiler alert, one of the
things I could bridge into an IDE feature
that I particularly like, you see
this little yellow light bulb here?
A little yellow light bulb is
Visual Studio Code's way of saying,
the C# Dev Kit's way of saying,
hey, got something you can do here.
And in this case, we can actually convert
this to a Program.Main style program.
So what it'll do is it will actually
generate for you the under the hood stuff.
It will generate the stuff for
you that if you're just sticking
with the high level language,
if you're just sticking with the top level
statements, you can totally do that.
But you can also run
your programs like this.
And Microsoft knows.
Basically what it does is the .NET tooling
looks for a method called main that has
a few different what we call method
signatures, we'll get into that.
But it looks for a method called
main to actually run the program.
When you're using just top
level statements like this,
it's just generated for you.
Great, great question.